Pinecone integration learn (#3098)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-pinecone.md

    $ astro dev init
    ```

2. Add the following two packages to your `requirements.txt` file to install the [Pinecone Airflow Provider](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-pinecone/stable/index.html) and the [OpenAI Python client](https://platform.openai.com/docs/libraries) in your Astro project:

    ```text
    apache-airflow-providers-pinecone==1.0.0
    openai==1.3.2
    ```

3. To create an [Airflow connection](connections.md) to your Pinecone account and be able to use the OpenAI API, add the following environment variables to your `.env` file. Provide your own values for `<your-pinecone-environment>`, `<your-pinecone-api-key>` and `<your-openai-api-key>`:

    ```text
    AIRFLOW_CONN_PINECONE_DEFAULT='{
        "conn_type": "pinecone",
        "login": "<your-pinecone-environment>",  # for example `gcp-starter`
        "password": "<your-pinecone-api-key>"
    }'
    OPENAI_API_KEY="<your-openai-api-key>"
    ```

## Step 2: Add your data

The DAG in this tutorial runs a query on vectorized series descriptions, which were mostly retrieved from [IMDB](https://www.imdb.com/) with added domain expert inputs. 

> Create a new file called `series_data.txt` in the `include` directory, then copy and paste the following information into the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your Astro project `include` directory, create a file called `series_data.txt`. 
2. Copy and paste the following text into the file:
```

Reviewer: Tried making this consistent with other high level steps where we use numbered lists

> ```text
> 1 ::: Star Trek: Discovery (2017) ::: sci-fi ::: Ten years before Kirk, Spock, and the Enterprise, the USS Discovery discovers new worlds and lifeforms using a new innovative mushroom based propulsion system. 
> 2 ::: Feel Good (2020) ::: romance ::: The series follows recovering addict and comedian Mae, who is trying to control the addictive behaviors and intense romanticism that permeate every facet of their life.
> 3 ::: For All Mankind (2019) ::: sci-fi ::: The series dramatizes an alternate history depicting "what would have happened if the global space race had never ended" after the Soviet Union succeeds in the first crewed Moon landing ahead of the United States.
> 4 ::: The Legend of Korra (2012) ::: anime ::: Avatar Korra fights to keep Republic City safe from the evil forces of both the physical and spiritual worlds.
> 5 ::: Mindhunter (2017) ::: crime ::: In the late 1970s, two FBI agents broaden the realm of criminal science by investigating the psychology behind murder and end up getting too close to real-life monsters.
> 6 ::: The Umbrella Academy (2019) ::: adventure ::: A family of former child heroes, now grown apart, must reunite to continue to protect the world.
> 7 ::: Star Trek: Picard (2020) ::: sci-fi ::: Follow-up series to Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987) and Star Trek: Nemesis (2002) that centers on Jean-Luc Picard in the next chapter of his life.
> 8 ::: Invasion (2021) ::: sci-fi ::: Earth is visited by an alien species that threatens humanity's existence. Events unfold in real time through the eyes of five ordinary people across the globe as they struggle to make sense of the chaos unraveling around them.
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```text
    1 ::: Star Trek: Discovery (2017) ::: sci-fi ::: Ten years before Kirk, Spock, and the Enterprise, the USS Discovery discovers new worlds and lifeforms using a new innovative mushroom based propulsion system. 
    2 ::: Feel Good (2020) ::: romance ::: The series follows recovering addict and comedian Mae, who is trying to control the addictive behaviors and intense romanticism that permeate every facet of their life.
    3 ::: For All Mankind (2019) ::: sci-fi ::: The series dramatizes an alternate history depicting "what would have happened if the global space race had never ended" after the Soviet Union succeeds in the first crewed Moon landing ahead of the United States.
    4 ::: The Legend of Korra (2012) ::: anime ::: Avatar Korra fights to keep Republic City safe from the evil forces of both the physical and spiritual worlds.
    5 ::: Mindhunter (2017) ::: crime ::: In the late 1970s, two FBI agents broaden the realm of criminal science by investigating the psychology behind murder and end up getting too close to real-life monsters.
    6 ::: The Umbrella Academy (2019) ::: adventure ::: A family of former child heroes, now grown apart, must reunite to continue to protect the world.
    7 ::: Star Trek: Picard (2020) ::: sci-fi ::: Follow-up series to Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987) and Star Trek: Nemesis (2002) that centers on Jean-Luc Picard in the next chapter of his life.
    8 ::: Invasion (2021) ::: sci-fi ::: Earth is visited by an alien species that threatens humanity's existence. Events unfold in real time through the eyes of five ordinary people across the globe as they struggle to make sense of the chaos unraveling around them.
    ```
````

> ## Step 3 Create your DAG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Create your DAG
```

> 1. In your `dags` folder, create a file called `query_series_vectors.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your Astro project `dags` folder, create a file called `query_series_vectors.py`.
```

> 2. Copy the following code into the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the following code into the file:
```

    - The `create_index_if_not_exists` task uses the [PineconeHook](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-pinecone/versions/latest/modules/PineconeHook) to connect to your Pinecone instance and retrieve the current list of indexes in your Pinecone environment. No index of the name `PINECONE_INDEX_NAME` exists yet, the task will create it. Note that with a free tier Pinecone account you can have one index.
    - The `pinecone_vector_ingest` task uses the [PineconeIngestOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow-providers-pinecone/versions/latest/modules/PineconeIngestOperator) to ingest the vectorized series data into the index created by the `create_index_if_not_exists` task.
    - The `query_pinecone` task performs a vector search in Pinecone to get the series most closely matching the user-provided mood and prints the result to the task logs.

    ![A screenshot from the Airflow UI's Grid view with the Graph tab selected showing a successful run of the query_series_vectors DAG.](/img/tutorials/airflow-pinecone_query_series_vectors_dag.png)

## Step 4: Run your DAG

> 1. Run `astro dev start` in your Astro project to start Airflow and open the Airflow UI at `localhost:8080`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your Astro project, then run `astro dev start` to run Airflow locally.
```

2. In the Airflow UI, run the `query_series_vectors` DAG by clicking the play button. Then, provide your input to the [Airflow param](airflow-params.md) for `series_mood`.

    ![A screenshot of the Trigger DAG view in the Airflow UI showing the mood `A series about Astronauts` being provided to the `series_mood` param.](/img/tutorials/airflow-pinecone_params.png)

3. View your series suggestion in the task logs of the `query_pinecone` task:

```text
[2023-11-20, 14:03:48 UTC] {logging_mixin.py:154} INFO - You should watch: For All Mankind
[2023-11-20, 14:03:48 UTC] {logging_mixin.py:154} INFO - Description: The series dramatizes an alternate history depicting "what would have happened if the global space race had never ended" after the Soviet Union succeeds in the first crewed Moon landing ahead of the United States.
```

:::tip

> When watching `For All Mankind` make sure to have a tab with [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org) open to compare the alternate timeline with ours. Also don't forget to hydrate and move around every once in a while!

Reviewer: Is the hydration thing a reference to something in the show? If not, I would update to:

"And don't forget to hydrate and stretch, it can get stressful!" or something like that

> When watching `For All Mankind` make sure to have a tab with [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org) open to compare the alternate timeline with ours. Also don't forget to hydrate and move around every once in a while!

Reviewer 2: No, not a direct reference no... I thought about it and looked a couple of quotes but can't really think of something that stands out enough to fit in here

```
“Flying a spacecraft isn’t like driving a car. It doesn’t just go where you point it.”
```

maybe this one? 🤔 Not sure if it works but it is distinctive enough and said by one of the main characters. Then I'd make it

```
And remember, flying spacecraft isn’t like driving a car. It doesn’t just go where you point it.
```

my initial idea was just to give generic advice about being watching a series 😅 . But I like your reference idea better. I would not call the series stressful, I mean it is tense at times but mostly interesting and inspiring (and kinda sad in a way the closer they get to our time in their alternate timeline because at least in some aspects, for now, they have the better one).

---
title: "Orchestrate Pinecone operations with Apache Airflow"

> sidebar_label: "Pinecone"

Reviewer 3: Need to add this to sidebarLearn.js so it shows up in the sidebar

- Run dynamic queries based on upstream events in your data ecosystem or user input via [Airflow params](airflow-params.md) against Pinecone to retrieve objects with similar vectors.
- Add Airflow features like [retries](rerunning-dags.md#automatically-retry-tasks) and [alerts](error-notifications-in-airflow.md) to your Pinecone operations.

## Time to complete 

This tutorial takes approximately 30 minutes to complete.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this tutorial, make sure you have an understanding of:

- The basics of Pinecone. See [Pinecone Introduction](https://docs.pinecone.io/docs/overview).
- Airflow fundamentals, such as writing DAGs and defining tasks. See [Get started with Apache Airflow](get-started-with-airflow.md).
- Airflow decorators. [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).
- Airflow hooks. See [Hooks 101](what-is-a-hook.md).
- Airflow connections. See [Managing your Connections in Apache Airflow](connections.md).

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).

> - A Pinecone account with an API key. You can use a free tier account for this example.

Reviewer 3: Can we link here to where ever you go to create a pinecone account?

## Step 1: Configure your Astro project 

If you don't want to set up your project manually, you can clone this [repo](https://github.com/astronomer/PineconeIntegrationExample) to your computer and skip to Step 4. 

1. Create a new Astro project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir astro-pinecone-tutorial && cd astro-pinecone-tutorial
    $ astro dev init
    ```

2. Add the following two packages to your `requirements.txt` file to install the [Pinecone Airflow Provider](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-pinecone/stable/index.html) and [scikit-learn](https://pypi.org/project/scikit-learn/) in your Astro project:

    ```text
    apache-airflow-providers-pinecone
    scikit-learn
    ```

## Step 2: Add your data

The DAG in this tutorial runs a query on vectorized movie descriptions from [IMDB](https://www.imdb.com/). 
Create a new file called `movie_data.txt` in the `include` directory, then copy and paste the following information:

```text

> 1 ::: Arrival (2016) ::: sci-fi ::: A linguist works with the military to communicate with alien lifeforms after twelve mysterious spacecraft appear around the world.

Reviewer 3: Just a suggestion, but maybe we should include a different movie list here than what we used for Weaviate. For variety :)

4 ::: Serenity (2005) ::: sci-fi ::: The crew of the ship Serenity try to evade an assassin sent to recapture telepath River.
5 ::: Upstream Colour (2013) ::: romance ::: A man and woman are drawn together, entangled in the life cycle of an ageless organism. Identity becomes an illusion as they struggle to assemble the loose fragments of wrecked lives.
6 ::: The Matrix (1999) ::: sci-fi ::: When a beautiful stranger leads computer hacker Neo to a forbidding underworld, he discovers the shocking truth--the life he knows is the elaborate deception of an evil cyber-intelligence.
7 ::: Inception (2010) ::: sci-fi ::: A thief who steals corporate secrets through the use of dream-sharing technology is given the inverse task of planting an idea into the mind of a C.E.O., but his tragic past may doom the project and his team to disaster.
```

## Step 3 Create your DAG

1. In your `dags` folder, create a file called `pinecone_example.py`.

2. Copy the following code into the file.

> ```python

Reviewer 3: Let's put this DAG in the `code-samples` folder and import it into the doc. Code in there gets run through a linter and some basic checks during the build process which helps us maintain everything over time. You can look at the weaviate one for an example of how to do it https://github.com/astronomer/docs/blob/main/learn/airflow-weaviate.md

Author: I'm gonna let Tamara do that if that's ok just since she's re-writing it to work w/o the openAI key issues

import json
from pendulum import datetime
from airflow.operators.empty import EmptyOperator
from airflow.decorators import (
    dag,
    task,
)  
from airflow.providers.pinecone.operators.pinecone import PineconeIngestOperator
from airflow.providers.pinecone.hooks.pinecone import PineconeHook
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TfidfVectorizer
import re
import uuid

name_for_index = "testindex"

> @dag(schedule="@daily",

Reviewer 3: Lets make the schedule `None` here. I think for example DAGs in tutorials better to have them not run unless manually triggered, just to help people avoid any unexpected issues.

                                       input_vectors=data_conversion,)
    
    @task
    def query_pinecone(vector_data: list):
        hook = PineconeHook(conn_id="pinecone")

        query_vector = vector_data[0]['values']
        query_response = hook.query_vector(
            index_name=name_for_index,
            top_k=10,
            include_values=True,
            include_metadata=True,
            vector=query_vector
            )
        print(query_response)
    
    querytask = query_pinecone(vector_data=data_conversion)

    @task
    def delete_pinecone_index():
        hook = PineconeHook(conn_id="pinecone")
        deletion = hook.delete_index(index_name=name_for_index)

    clean_up_task = delete_pinecone_index()
    clean_up_task.as_teardown(setups=[indexcreator])

    
    start >> indexcreator >> data_conversion >> ingestion >> querytask >> clean_up_task

pinecone_example_dag()
```

This DAG consists of six Tasks and one function

- `Start Task` (EmptyOperator):This is a placeholder task that acts as the starting point of the DAG. It does not perform any action but is useful for structuring the workflow.

> - `import_data_func` Function: This function reads movie data from a text file, processes it to extract titles, years, genres, and descriptions, and then vectorizes the descriptions using TF-IDF (Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency) from Scikit learn.

Reviewer 3: Does this run every time the DAG is parsed? If it's not running as a task, should it be one?

Author: Upodated so no longer relevant

- `convert_to_pinecone_format` Task: This task converts the data into a format compatible with Pinecone, where each movie's data is represented as a dictionary with an 'id' and 'values' (the vector).
- `ingestion` (PineconeIngestOperator): This operator handles the ingestion of the vector data into the Pinecone index. It uses the data converted into Pinecone format by the convert_to_pinecone_format task.
- `query_pinecone` Task: This task performs a vector search query in the Pinecone index. It uses the vector of the first movie as the query vector to find the top 10 most similar movies.
- `delete_pinecone_index` Task: This task deletes the Pinecone index that was created earlier in the DAG. It's set as a [teardown task](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-setup-teardown), ensuring that the index is cleaned up after the DAG runs regardless of any other task success. This is done because the free tier of Pinecone only supports one index, so in order to be able to run the DAG multiple times, the index needs to be deleted between runs. 

> 

Reviewer 3: Let's add a screenshot of the graph view of the DAG here, so people have a sense of what it looks like.

## Step 4: Run your DAG

1. Run `astro dev start` in your Astro project to start Airflow and open the Airflow UI at `localhost:8080`.

> 2. In the Airflow UI, go to the connections managment UI and create a new pinecone connection following the example in the screenshot below:

Reviewer 3: We should add a bit more detail here beyond just the screenshot. Like lets say explicitly that the connection needs to be named `pinecone`, and any relevant info about what the pinecone environment is, etc.

Author: added!

![Pinecone Connection Example](/img/examples/pinecone_learn_connection_example.png)

3. In the Airflow UI, run the `pinecone_example_dag` DAG by clicking the play button.

4. View your movie suggestion in the task logs of the `query_embeddings` task:

> ```text

Reviewer 3: Update this to include the movie suggestion?

Author: Waiting on getting it to work still unfortunately, hopefully Tamara can sub here with a final example
